All right.
So in this lesson and we're going to introduce the computed function from the View Library and hopefully
this is going to be the missing puzzle piece that ties everything together.
So the computed function allows us to tie the dynamic computation of a value to some kind of other reactive
value.
So to put it into the context of our example, we are trying to tie together the computation of C based
on the reactivity of A and B as those values change, we want to update C, it's something that's very
similar to the idea of a computed property in our component.
Whenever our data changes, our computed property reevaluates.
So we can think about those properties as computed properties.
And this function is called the computed function because it basically does the exact same thing.
So I'm going to import this function called computed and it's going to give us that same reactivity
that we see with computed properties in components, but outside the scope of a specific value component.
So here's what I'm going to do for my C variable.
I'm going to invoke this computed function, okay, that we imported from view what this function expects
as an argument is a function, right?
So we're going to provide an error function in line.
It expects an error function and the way you can think of it is like this.
Anything that we use here in the body of this error function, the computed function is going to track
those values.
And if those values change, then the computed function will rerun the function that we pass in.
So let me write out this code and then once again walk through what we're going to accomplish here.
I'm going to write a dot value plus B dot value.
All right.
So we pass computed a function and that function says to add together the number on the value property
of A and the number on the value property of B, An, A and B are both objects returned by the ref function.
Whenever the value property of A or B changes the computed function, we'll rerun this function that
we pass in.
Which will in turn give us a new sum.
So this will accomplish exactly what we want.
So what does the computed function actually return as an argument?
As a return or as a return value?
Does it return the value three in this case?
The answer is no.
It returns a reactive object.
It returns the exact kind of object that A and B are, which is going to be a JavaScript object with
a value property set to that computation.
So if I simply console.log C, we're going to see that it's not going to be equal to three.
It's going to be equal to this complex object right here that the view developer setup.
However, if I do see that value, remember that I can access that property on any of view's computed
or reactive objects.
I can execute it and see that it is equal to three.
Right?
So this is no different so far compared to if we had wrapped three in a ref.
But here is the beauty of the computed function.
Let's now see what happens when I assign, for example, a dot value to ten and then console.log.
See that value?
So now view is going to keep track of any changes throughout our program.
So because we have changed the value of A and we know that the computer function is keeping track of
those changes and re-evaluating whenever we see a change, it's going to rerun this function that we
passed to the computed function.
So it's going to get ten plus two and it's going to evaluate to 12 and it's going to rewrite the value
on this C reactive object to be 12.
So in short, we're going to accomplish exactly what we saw in the Google sheet.
So if I run this file right now, we're going to see we're going to start out with C's value being three.
C is an object.
It's a reactive object from view, which you can think of just as a plain JavaScript object that has
a value property that is dynamically changing.
Right?
That's the simplest definition I can give.
It's going to start out with its initial value of three, which is the initial calculation of one plus
two.
Then we're going to change the a value to ten, which is going to force the computed function to rerun.
And somewhere in those internals of how V works, it's going to say, okay, ten plus two equals 12
and I'm going to overwrite the value on this C object to now be 12, which is the new sum.
And similarly, if I alter the value on my B reactive object, if I do B that value equals something
like 15 and then console.log.
See that value once again we're going to see 25.
And the reason is because we have connected the reactivity of the C object to not just changes in the
A object, but also the B object.
Okay.
This line is critical because this line connects it to both A and B.
Whenever either one changes, then C will update or to be more specific, view will update C on our
behalf.
Right.
That's why it's imperative that we specifically provide references to reactive objects and their values
here in line.
Because if we simply hardcoded something here, like let's say we did three plus four and we are hard
coding a function that is always going to evaluate to seven, right?
So anytime we output the value of C, we're going to have a consistent value of seven by referencing
A and B, which are reactive objects.
Vue knows in its internals that the C object and its reactivity should keep track.
Keep an eye on whatever's going on with either A or B throughout the program and whenever those update,
C will update accordingly.
Now, remember, C is not a plane number.
C is an object, a reactive object, a JavaScript object that has a value property that will be dynamically
changed by Vue whenever the value of A or B changes, and A and B themselves are reactive objects.
All right.
So in summary, the ref function specifies a value that's going to change throughout the program, and
the computed function allows us to calculate a derived value based on that reactive value that's going
to change.
So it's basically identical just about.
To how the data and computed properties work in our view component in our options API.
Right.
You can almost think of the RAF as the base data, the core independent data that is changing by itself.
Our base state and you can think of computed as equivalent to a computed property on a component.
It is a derived piece of data, it is a calculated piece of data, a dependent piece of data that knows
the change whenever the thing that's tracking is changing.
So we use RAF to set up the thing that is being tracked and we set up computed to set up the calculation
that is going to monitor those reactive objects.
So hoping that's going to give you a better sense of what we've done here.
I think it's a pretty simple idea to grasp from Google Sheets, but the syntax can be a little bit confusing
on the view side.
But don't worry, we're going to practice a lot more with this concept throughout the upcoming lessons,
so I will see you in the next one.